Added the 2nd chapter of Nbuild gs (#10)
raven-os/getting-started: nbuild/02.build_manifests.md

# 2 Build Manifests

> A build manifest is a set of instructions that fetches, compiles and splits a software into one or more packages. It is typically made of three main parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A build manifest is a set of instructions that fetch, compile and split a software into one or more packages. It is typically made of three main parts:
```

> * A set of metadata used as a reference for the metadata of the built packages

Reviewer: Unclear.

* A list of versions and a corresponding set of data, one per version, called the versionized arguments of a build

> * A list of instructions (taking the form of a python function) that builds the packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A list of instructions (taking the form of a python function) that build the packages
```

## 2.1 Writing a build manifest
### 2.1.1 The `@manifest` decorator
The `@manifest` decorator requires several parameters:
* `name` is the name of the software being built.
* `category` is the category the built packages belong to.
The category should be in `snake-case`.
* `description` is a short description of what this package is for, what it does, etc.
It should start with an uppercase letter and finish with a dot.
* `tags` are a list of tags helping a user to find the built packages easily.
Each tag should be in `snake-case`.
* `maintainer` is the email address of the maintainer of this build manifest.
* `licenses` are the software license(s) of this package.
* `upstream_url` is the URL pointing to the home page of the software.
* `kind` is the kind of packages
* `versions_data` is the versionized list of arguments.

#### 2.1.1.1 Effective and virtual packages
Two kinds of packages are possible: **effective** and **virtual**.

A **Virtual** package is a package with no data, only listing its dependencies.

> An **Effective** package is, on the contrary, a package with data.

Reviewer: "on the contrary" sounds weird

Author: what about this?
```suggestion
On the opposite, an **Effective** package is a package with data.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversly, an **Effective** package is a package with data.
```
Still sounds kind of odd, but a little better I think.

```
[
    {
        'semver': '1.0.0',
        'fetch': [{
                'url': 'http://example.com/dl/hello_world_1.0.0.tar.gz',
                'sha256': '5891b5b522d5df086d0ff0b110fbd9d21bb4fc7163af34d08286a2e846f6be03',
            }
        ],
    },
    {
        'semver': '1.1.0',
        'fetch': [{
                'url': 'http://example.com/dl/hello_world_1.1.0.tar.gz',
                'sha256': 'e258d248fda94c63753607f7c4494ee0fcbe92f1a76bfdac795c9d84101eb317',
            },
        ]
    }
]
```

## 2.2 Uploading packages to an official or unofficial Raven-OS server
### 2.2.1 To an official Raven-OS server
Building a package with `nbuild` has no incidence on the official repositories.
To upload a package on one of Raven-OS official server, you will have to build it using [`build-raven-os-org`](https://build.raven-os.org), which will push the built packages on the repository [`unstable`](https://unstable.raven-os.org).

> The Raven-OS team will then take care of moving the packages considered safe enough to the repository [`beta`](https://beta.raven-os.org), and then to the repository [`stable`](https://stable.raven-os.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Raven-OS team will then take care of moving the packages considered safe and relevant enough to the repository [`beta`](https://beta.raven-os.org), and then to the repository [`stable`](https://stable.raven-os.org).
```
I think there may be some packages that while safe, are totally unfit for beta.

### 2.2.2 To an unofficial Raven-OS server
If you prefer not hosting your packages on one of Raven-OS offcial server but still want Raven-OS users to be able to use them, you can host your packages on your own instance of [Nest Server](https://github.com/raven-os/nest-server).

## 2.3 `npf-checker`
`npf-checker` is a checker that ensures the validity and conformance of an npf file.

> It will basically unpack it in a cache directory, fix the issues it found or let you fix them yourself, and repack it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will unpack it in a cache directory, fix the issues it found or let you fix them yourself, and repack it.
```

> It will be repacked as a new npf file called `[old_filename].new` and located in the same folder as the one you passed to `npf-checker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package will be repacked as a new npf file called `[old_filename].new` and located in the same folder as the one you passed to `npf-checker`.
```

Reviewer: It was unclear what "it" was referring too.

> As for its flags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`npf-checker` accepts the following flags:
```

* `-c` or `--cache-dir` to change the cache directory used by `npf-checker`, which is `cache/` by default.
* `--visual` to use visual tools to fix the issues `npf-cheker` found yourself.

> It looks for the `visual` environment variable on your system and uses the software associated with it.

Reviewer: Environment variables are usually in uppercase right?

Author: yep, my bad
